# FRACT-OL - Creating beautiful fractols using MiniLibX

Fractals are infinitely complex patterns that exhibit self-similarity accross different scales (if you zoom in on a fractal, you will see the same pattern occuring again and again).
They are generated by mathematical formulas that undergo infinite recursive iterations.

In this project, I created 3 captivating fractals:
1. **Mandelbrot Set**: defined by the equation `z = z² + c`, where z and c are both complex numbers. By providing different values to the complex number `c = a + bi`, (with z initialised to 0, so effectively, `z = 0 + c = c` in the beginning), we can determine whether z remains bounded or diverges to infinity. So the logic of creating this fractal is that `a and b` are the `x and y `coordinates, and depending on if the corresponding z value converge or diverge, and the iteration it takes for it to diverge, we set the (x, y) point to a differen colour, creating a gradient graphical effect.
3. **Julia Set**: The Julia set is closely related to the Mandelbrot set, but instead of varying the constant c, we fix **a specific value for c** and iterate the equation `z = z² + c` with different starting values of z. Each unique value of c generates a unique and mesmerizing Julia set (unlike the Mandelbrot set, which just has 1 pattern).
4. **Burning Ship Fractal**: The Burning Ship fractal is a variation of the Mandelbrot set, using the equation `z = (|Re(z)| + i * |Im(z)|)² + c`, which takes the absolute value of both the real and imaginary part of z before squaring it.
### How to use my program
Simply `git clone` my repository and type `make` in the project directory. After the program is compiled, depending on the fractal you want to display, simple run the program with the following options of arguments:

`./fractol mandelbrot`

`./fractol julia [real] [imaginary]` - e.g. ./fractol julia 0.355 0.355

`./fractol burning ship`

A beautiful shape should appear in a window, and here are some fun things you can do with it:

`mouse scroll` for zooming in and out of the shape, the zoom will follow the actual mouse position

`arrow keys` for moving the shape accordingly

`+` for increasing the iteration, so creating more precise images, which will do wonders when the image is more zoomed in. Though understandably, it increases lagging when zooming in and out...

`-` for decreasing the iteration

`0` for reverting back to the original image

`m` for jumping to the mandelbrot set

`j` for jumping to the julia set with c value initialised with `c = -0.8698 + 0.26i`

Now when we are in the **julia set** mode: simply click the mouse on any point in the window, and it will set the c value to the corresponding coordinates you click on, creating different julia set patterns!

`1` for setting the colour scheme to a mix of `pyschedelic purple 0x660066` and `lime shock 0xCCFF00`

`2` for setting the colour scheme to a mix of `neon orange 0xFF6600` and `pyschedelic purple 0x660066`

`3` for setting the colour scheme to a mix of `magenta burst 0xFF00FF` and `aqua dream 0x33CCCC`

Note that the original colour scheme is a mix of `eletric blue 0x0066FF` and `hot pink 0xFF66B2` (TV Girl dream <3) 

Enjoy!! :)
